all right thank you I think the
beautiful Mullen put it perfectly every
man deserves the opportunity to grow a
little bit of luxury
ladies and gentlemen more importantly Mo
Bros and most sisters for the next 70
minutes I'm going to share with you my
Movember journey and how through that
journey we've redefined charity we're
redefining the way prostate cancer
researchers are working together
throughout the world and I hope through
that process that I inspire you to
create something significant in your
life something significant that will go
on and make this world a better place so
the most common question I get asked I'm
going to answer it now so that I don't
have to do it over drinks tonight is how
did this come about how do you Movember
start well normally a charity starts
with the cause and someone that is
directly affected by a cause they then
go on to create an event and beyond that
a foundation to support that pretty much
in every case that's how a charity
starts not so with Movember Movember
started in a very traditional Australian
way was on a Sunday afternoon there was
my brother and a mate having a few beers
and now watching the world go by
had a few more beers and I had the
conversation turned to 70s fashion
and how everything manages to come back
into style and a few more beers so there
has to be some stuff that hasn't come
back then one more beer it was whatever
happened to the mustache why hasn't that
made a comeback so there's a lot more
beers and then the day ended with a
challenge to bring the mustache back so
in Australia mo is slang for mustache so
we renamed the month November Movember
and created some pretty basic rules
which still stand today and they are
start the month clean-shaven ROC a
mustache not a beard not a go to your
mustache for the 30 days of November and
then we agreed that we would come
together at the end of the month
have a moustache themed party an award a
prize for the best and of course the
worst mustache now trust me when you're
growing a moustache back in 2003 and
there were 30 of us back then and this
is before the ironic hipster mustache
movement
it created a lot of controversy so my
boss wouldn't let me go and see clients
my girlfriend at the time who's no
longer my girlfriend hated it
parents would shuffle kids away from us
but we came together at the end of the
month and we celebrated our journey it
was a real journey and we had a lot of
fun and in 2004 I said to the guys that
was so much fun
we need to legitimize this so we can get
away with it year on year so we started
thinking about that we were inspired by
the women around us and all they were
doing for breast cancer we thought you
know what there's nothing for men's
health why is that why why can't we
combine growing in the stache and do
something for men's health and I started
to research that topic and discovered
prostate cancer is the male equivalent
of breast cancer in terms of the number
of men that die from it and diagnosed
with it but there was nothing for this
cause
so we've married growing a mustache with
prostate cancer and then we created our
tagline which is changing the face of
men's health and that eloquently
describes a challenge changing your
appearance for the 30 days and also the
outcome that we're trying to achieve
getting men engaged in their health
having them have a better understanding
about the health risks that they face so
with that model
I then cold-called the CEO of the
prostate cancer foundation I said to him
I've got the most amazing idea that's
going to transform your organization and
I didn't want to share with him the idea
over the phone so I convinced him to
meet with me for coffee in Melbourne in
2004 and we sat down and I shared with
him my vision of getting men growing
mustaches across Australia raising
awareness for this cause and funds for
his organisation
I needed a partnership to legitimately
do that and I said we're gonna come
together at the end we're gonna have a
mustache thing party we're gonna have
DJs we're gonna celebrate life and we're
gonna change the face of men's health
and you just looked at me in laughed and
he said said Adam that's a really novel
idea but we're an ultra conservative
organization we can't have anything to
do with
so I paid for coffee that day and he's
parting comment as we shook hands was
listen if you haven't raised any money
out of this we'll gladly take it so my
lesson that year was persistence and we
persisted and we got four hundred and
fifty guys growing mustaches and
together we raised $54,000 and we
donated every cent of that to the
prostate cancer foundation of Australia
and that represented at the time the
single biggest donation they'd ever
received so from that day forward my
life has become about a mustache
everyday this morning I wake up and go
my life is about a mustache essentially
I'm a mustache farmer and my season is
November
so in 2005 the campaign got more
momentum was more successful in
Australia and then New Zealand and then
in 2006 we came to a pivotal point we it
was consuming so much of our time after
hours on weekends that we thought we
either need to close this down or figure
a way to fund Movember so that I could
quit my job and go and spend more time
in the organisation and take it to the
next level it's really interesting when
you try and figure a way to fund a
fundraising organization built off
growing moustaches let me tell you
there's not too many people interested
in investing in that not even the
prostate cancer foundation who had
raised about 1.2 million dollars for at
that stage so again we persisted and
fosters Bruin came to the party and gave
us our first-ever sponsorship and that
was enough for me to quit my job but it
consulting on the side and leading into
Movember 2006 we'd run through all the
money from Foster's would run through
all the money I had and essentially we
had no money left and we convinced all
our suppliers creative agencies web
development agencies hosting companies
what not to delay their billing until
December so we'd racked up at this stage
about $600,000 worth of debt so if
November 2006 didn't happen the four
founders well we would have been broke
we would have been homeless sitting on
the street with mustaches
but we thought you know what if that's
who I thing that happens so what we're
going to have a lot of fun doing it and
taught us the importance of taking risks
and really smart risks then in early
2007 a really interesting thing happened
we had Mo Bros from from Canada from the
US and from the UK emailing us and
calling us and saying hey there's
nothing for prostate cancer bringing
this campaign to these countries so we
thought why not let's do it
so I called called the CEO of prostate
cancer Canada and I said to him I have
this most amazing concept
it's gonna transform your organization I
don't want to tell you about it now but
will you meet with me if I fly all the
way to Toronto so I flew here met down
on Front Street East and we sat in the
boardroom and I said right he's my
vision art of getting men growing
moustaches all across Canada raising
awareness and funds for your
organization and he looked at me and
laughed and said Adam it sounds like a
really novel idea but we're all true
conservative organizations I've heard
this before I know I know how it goes
but he said we will partner with you but
we're not going to invest in it you need
to figure a way to bring this campaign
across here and make it work so what we
did was we took some of the money that
we raised in Australia to bring the
campaign across to this country of the
US and UK and we did that because we
knew if this was successful we could
raise infinitely more money globally
than we could just in Australia and that
money fuels research and that research
will get us to a cure we're not about
finding an Australian cure or a Canadian
cure we're about finding the cure so in
2007 we bought the campaign across here
and it was it set the stage for the
campaign it wasn't as successful as we
thought it would be we were sort of very
gung-ho with our success in Australia
and New Zealand
so that year really taught us the
importance of being patient and really
understanding the local market before
you become so bold as to set lofty
targets but what I'm really pleased to
say is in 2010 Movember became a truly
global movement Canada was just kept at
the
host in terms of the number one
fundraising campaign in the world last
year we had 450,000 mowbray spread
across the world and together we raised
77 million dollars
and that makes Movember now the biggest
funder of prostate cancer research and
support programs in the world and that
is an amazing achievement when you think
about us growing mustaches and for us we
have redefined charity our ribbon is a
hairy ribbon our ambassadors are the
Mowbray's and the most sisters and I
think that's been fundamental to our
success we hand across our brand now
campaign to those people we let them
embrace it and interpret it in their own
way so now I live in Los Angeles because
the prostate cancer foundation of the
u.s. is based there and I always get
asked by the media down there because
it's so celebrity driven who are your
celebrity ambassadors and I say to them
last year were fortunate enough to have
450,000 celebrity ambassadors what do
you mean it's like every single person
every single mo bro and mo sister that
participates in Movember is our
celebrity ambassador and that is so so
important and fundamental to our success
now what I want to share with you is one
of my most touching moments and it
happened here in Toronto last year at
the end of the campaign I was out with
the team was the end of Movember we've
had a great campaign and - we'd had our
fair share of beer that night but I said
you know what I think we've got one more
bar left in us so we piled into a taxi
and this was our taxi driver and I was
sitting in the back seat and he turned
around and said where you going
I said hey that is an amazing mustache
and he said I'm doing it for Movember
and I said so am I and I said tell me
your Movember story and he goes listen I
know it's about men's health I know it's
about prostate cancer but this is for
breast cancer I said okay that's
interesting he goes last year my mum
passed away from breast cancer in Sri
Lanka because we couldn't afford proper
treatment for her and he said this
mustache is my tribute to my mum we sort
of all choked up in the back of their
taxi and I didn't tell him who I was
because I didn't think I was appropriate
and I just shook his hand I said thank
you so much your mum would be so proud
and from that moment I realized that
Movember is so much more than a mustache
having a joke it's about each person
coming to this platform embracing it in
their own way and being significant in
their own life for us now at Movember we
really focus on three program areas and
having a true impact awareness and
education survivor support programs and
research now we always focus naturally
on how much we raise because is a very
tangible outcome but for me awareness
and education is more important than the
funds we raise because I know that is
changing and saving lives today it's
probably best example by a young guy
that I met at South by Southwest in
Austin Texas at the start of the year he
came up to me and said thank you for
starting Movember and I said thank you
for doing Movember I looked at him as
like yeah I'm pretty sure you can grow a
moustache
and I said watching Movember story and
he said I grew the worst miss - ever but
I went home for Thanksgiving dinner and
pretty quickly the conversation around
the table turned to what the hell was
going on and we talked I talked to them
about Movember and then after that my
dad came up to me and at the age of 26
for the first time ever I had a
conversation with my dad one on one
about men's health I had a conversation
with my dad about prostate cancer I
learned that my grandfather had prostate
cancer
and I was able to share with my dad that
he was twice as likely to get that
disease and he didn't know that and he
hadn't been getting screened for it
so now that guy is getting screened for
prostate cancer so those conversations
getting men engaged in this at whatever
age is so critically important and in my
view so much more important than the
funds we raise now to the funds we raise
and research and how we're redefining
research we fund prostate cancer
foundations now in 13 countries we
literally fund hundreds if not thousands
of institutions and researchers around
the world and when we looked at this
more recently we realized there's a real
lack of collaboration going on even
within institutions that alone
nationally little own globally and this
is not unique to prostate cancer this is
this is a cancer research the world over
and so we said right we redefine charity
we need to redefine the way these guys
operate how do we do that
so what we did was we created our global
action plan and we're taking 10% of
what's raised in each country now and
putting it into a global fund
we've got the best prostate cancer
scientific minds in the world that look
after that fund and they come together
each year and identified the number-one
priority and that last year was getting
a better screening test so they
identified that as a priority and then
they've gone and recruited now 300
researchers from around the world that
are studying that topic essentially the
same topic so now we're funding them to
the tune of about five or six million
dollars to collaborate and bringing them
together
and that's a unique thing in the cancer
world and we know through that
collaboration it will accelerate
outcomes and that's how we're redefining
the research world so what I know about
my Movember journey is that with a
really creative idea with passion with
persistence and a lot of patience for
mates for mustaches can inspire a
roomful of people and that roomful of
people can go on and inspire a city and
that city is Melbourne my home and that
city can go on and inspire a state and
that state can go on and inspire a
nation and beyond that you can create a
global movement that is changing the
face of men's health my name is Adam
groaning and that's my story thank you
[Applause]